# Chapter 11

## Committed Romantic Relationships

### Romantic Love
+ Romantic love consists of 
	+ passion
	+ -commitment
	+ intimacy

### Passion
+ Intensely positive feelings and desires
+ Hard time sustaining
+ Ghost, 1min

### Commitment
+ Intention to remain
+ Stay in a relationship because
	1. comfortable and pleasing
	2. avoid negative consequences
	+ Fun in the kitchen

### Intimacy
+ Feelings of closeness, connection, tenderness
+ Are we porcupines?

### Agree or Disagree
 
+ There is such a thing as love at first sight.
+ You can be friends with a past romantic partner.
+ You can fall in love multiple times.
+ I can love someone that I don’t like.
The person that I love will also be my best friend.
I will tell the person that I love everything.
As you wish
Primary Styles of Love
1. Eros – powerful, passionate
2. 
Storge
- comfortable
3. 
Ludus
- playful
Secondary
4. Pragma- practical 
What is your criteria?
5. Mania- manic (blend of ludic and 
eros
)
6. Agape- generous and selfless (blend of 
eros
 and 
storge
)
I want to tell my partner everything about me as soon as I fall in love.
My partner is my best friend.
I could only fall in love with someone who wants to have kids.
Love’s a game; I never take it too seriously.
I wish I could be sure Pat loves me.  I worry all the time.
I am not looking for a committed relationship, just some fun.
I am happiest when my partner is happy.
I put their welfare and desires ahead of my own.
Romantic relationships follow a path.
Growth
Individuality
Invitational Communication
I’m interested
Explorational
 Communication
What are the possibilities
?
Do you like jazz?
Intensifying Communication
Express thoughts and create culture
Revising Communication
What are our problems?
Commitment
Interviews
Navigation – adjusting, working through problems, accommodating
Relational culture- rules
Placemaking
- creating your environment
Deterioration
Feeling of dissatisfaction
Breakdown of patterns, rules, rituals
Look for other social support
Accepting the end
“what if” is not healthy
Move on
500 Days
History
 
Late 19
th
 Century – “calling”
Sat in parlor
1920’s – “date”
Courtship was about marriage.
Dating was about 
competion
After WWII – valued a stable and safe relationship
13 years old and didn’t date- late bloomer
Colonial Americans- intimacy in terms of physical not psychological
19
th
 Century – Had a romantic self hidden within
Pressure to reveal themselves
Share true self, true feelings
Offered security and affirmation
1950’s – keep partner happy
1960’s – self-sacrifice replaced by self-fulfillment
Online Dating
19
th
 Century – Newspaper personals
"Lonesome miner wants wife to share stake and prospects. Please respond to Louis 
Dreibelbis
 in Grass Valley, California.“
1980’s – Video dating
Who would you pick?
Online as we know it started in 1995.
Last year 17% of couples married
U.S.A. – 40 million
China – 140 million
India – 15 million
Average age of US user – 48
Data: A Love Story
Men Lie Most About
1. Age
2. Height
3. Income
Women Lie Most About
1. Weight
2. Physical Build
3. Age
What I’m doing with my life
I’m really good at
The first thing people notice about me
Six things I could never do without
Typical Friday night
